---
course: "Human Resource and Diversity Management"
source_doc: "Managing Working Conditions Case Study 2023-2024.pdf"
---
# Human Resource and Diversity Management

Managing working conditions Case study (in partnership with INRS) (S0 §p1)


Assistant Professor th.simon@montpellier-bs.com (S0 §p2)

- **Fairwear** produces eco-friendly clothing made from recycled materials. It has set up a collection/treatment/recovery of used fabrics and organic waste. The products are marketed online, via major retailers and in *pop-up stores*.
- In full growth since its creation, Fairwear has however experienced a slowdown in its productivity and overall performance over the past two quarters (which does not seem to be linked to a decline in orders or market losses). As a fundraiser approaches, the company's management is concerned and therefore wants to identify the endogenous factors causing the slowdown to remedy the situation. It already hypothesizes an organizational and managerial problem, at the origin of this loss of speed. Its turnover rate is 10.2%. (S0 §p3)


- Under the leadership of CEO Durand, the management team has set up a performance management system that promotes **agility** based on simplified dashboards and short and fast validation circuits.
- On the production side, operators are globally involved in the development of products with engineers and designers. In the processing workshop, the workers are **multitasking** and make shifts to ensure the different phases of processing of the raw material. The recycled material is then taken over by the garment operators in the manufacturing workshop. They are also versatile and alternate between weaving, sewing and dyeing activities.
- Managers are partly relieved of administrative tasks and limit their reporting to the essentials. Thus, they take time to organize the activity of the teams, develop autonomy and increase the room for maneuver of the operators. Their availability and regular feedback seem to be highly appreciated by employees. (S0 §p4)


- Regarding the HR policy, we can note the following elements:
- The **compensation and benefits policy** appears to be fair and favorable in relation to the industry.
- The **training policy** is neither steered nor formalized through a skills development plan. Some employees express the need and desire for career mobility, without any real support. In terms of health and safety at the workplace, no specific training is offered.
- An **occupational risk assessment document** was drawn up two years ago by the HR department, but the latter did not follow up with any prevention action plan.
- A **charter of good managerial practices** has been drawn up in collaboration with the teams and managers who are trained to supervise employees. (S1 §p1)


- Fairwear recently set up its Social and Economic Committee (CSE). Following various work accidents and occupational diseases declared in the company, the CSE has carried out surveys among the employees and has asked the management to respect its obligations in terms of work legislation concerning the prevention of occupational risks and to invest in adapted equipment to prevent new accidents from occurring. The elected members of the CSE are impatient with the lack of concrete measures taken by management to respond to the shortcomings that are beginning to lead to social discontent. Several managers and workers feel listened to but not heard when it comes to investing in safer means of production and more pleasant premises (noisy workshops, little light, poorly insulated thermally).
- Management control and the HR department do not really monitor occupational health by means of KPIs, nor is there any approach to analyzing the causes of accidents and occupational diseases. The prevention of occupational risks and the improvement of working conditions are not part of the company's HR strategy. (S1 §p2)


- Some figures from last year:
- 2 work accidents related to a problem of carrying loads (dislocation of the wrist and a  - lumbago): lack of automated equipment to move heavy loads.
- 2 work accidents related to hand tools (finger injuries and burns): absence of machine and  - personal protective equipment (embroidery machines, gloves, etc.)
- 1 occupational disease related to musculoskeletal disorders (sciatica): lack of automated equipment for moving heavy loads.
- These disruptions led to the absence of these five employees for varying lengths  ~ of time. In addition, there were additional costs due to the wages of temporary workers and overtime generated by the transfer of the workload of the absent operators to other employees.
- Not all teams are trained in safety processes and first-level maintenance. Many workers do not have personal protective equipment (PPE) adapted to the work situation (protective gloves, safety glasses, shoes, etc.). (S2 §p1)

#### Questions

- 1. List the factors (categorizing them) that influence occupational health at Fairwear.
- 2. Suggest four management practices that would improve the health of Fairwear employees. (S3 §p1)


### Questions

1. List the factors (categorizing them) that influence occupational health at Fairwear. (S4 §p1)

- I Work content & interpersonal exchanges (+)
- Autonomy: simplified procedures, room for maneuver, participation in decisions, use of skills and diversity of tasks.
- Social relations at work: availability and managerial support, cooperation encouraged, giving meaning to work, good relations between colleagues.
- Quality of work: having the means to do your job well, it provides satisfaction. (S4 §p2)


#### Questions

1. List the factors (categorizing them) that influence occupational health at Fairwear. (S5 §p1)

#### II – Work setting (-)

- Work equipment: lack of automated equipment for heavy loads, lack of PPE,  - investment project that did not succeed.
- Working environment: workshops are noisy, not very bright and poorly insulated  - thermally. (S6 §p1)


### Questions

1. List the factors (categorizing them) that influence occupational health at Fairwear. (S6 §p2)

- III Management-driven steering (-)
- HR policy: managerial charter, compensation policy (fair and favorable/sector),  - training policy (unpiloted), prevention policy (insufficient DU/HR monitoring), lack of HR performance indicators.
- Social dialogue: involvement of the CSE (alerts management) & CSE survey of employees but lack of concrete measures taken by management. (S6 §p3)


Questions (S6 §p4)

Suggest four management practices that would improve the 2. health of Fairwear employees. (S7 §p1)

- Provide the adapted equipment and train employees.  -
- Limit reporting to the essentials.  -
- Involve employees in decision-making and improve relations with the CSE.  -
- Increase employees' room for maneuver.
- Allow employees to carry out quality work (give sufficient time and resources).
- Promote the versatility and use of employees' skills.  - (S7 §p2)


# Thank you for your attention and have a great day!

